Alright, let's recap the assignment just
quickly. We want to assign our great two
new recipes. Perfect guacamole and spicy
grilled chicken tacos from simply
recipes.com. We're going to use that as
an example for our source code, our
source of data. So we want recreate those
recipes in our little Recipe application
and to do so, we are going to have to add
in unit of measures to the data.sql. We
want to use the Bootstrap class like we
did in the beginning of the course to
create the recipes on startup. Then we're
going to add in a service layer to
return the recipe list to the controller
and then we'll pass in that list to Thymeleaf
view and we want to display that
on the index page. So we're going to go
in and I'm going to switch over to
IntelliJ and start coding that. Now what
I've done is I did create the
RecipeBootstrap class and I have a
private method in there to get recipes
and it's going to return back a list of
recipes and that's ones that we want to
return on startup. And I didn't want to
spend time coding all this, so you can
see there's quite a bit here that's
going on and the one thing that I did on
each of the unit of the measures looks
like we got about six or seven of them
there that we're dealing with, is we need
to make sure that we're grabbing the
right ones.
So I just saw a mistake there. So we want
to grab cup here. That's my reference so
I'm going to go back in here. So I made a
mistake and I cut-and-paste error. So cut
and paste is going to get every
developer at one point or another. So I
go through here at the beginning, this is
actually a pretty ugly code but we're
doing a lot as far as creating the
initial seed data here. So we go through,
we create a list of recipes that's going
to be our return object for the method.
We go through and get all the UOM's
and because we're returning the optional
we're going to make sure that we
actually get the expected UOM. So if any
of these values are not found in the
database, we'll will throw up
an exception and bomb to startup and
we'll be able to see that right away. Now
we do similar thing with the Category. So I'm grabbing to both of these meals
are kind of a Mexican or tex-mex as they say here in the US. So I already had an
American and that's another typo. So
we'll fix that on the fly here, we want
to do Mexican. So replace that and I'll
be checking this in to GitHub so you
guys will have the final version here. So
we get the categories American-Mexican
category. And then we go in and create
our recipe for some yummy guac and we
give it the title of perfect guacamole. Set the prep and cook time, difficulty
and that's where we're using the enum. We
have directions which are quite lengthy
and we're going to modify our domain
objects as well to support this and I'll
show you that in one second. Then we set
the ingredients and I did add a helper
constructor to Ingredient that will take
in a description. The quantity is a big
decimal and then a UnitOfMeasure. And
then we have categories, and I did have
to make a quick tweak there as well on
the categories. We were not initializing
the Set and if you initialize the Set,
and with a default empty Set, then you
won't have to create one. And this is
just something from experience. If you
just have a POJO with a List or Set
property and you go to add something to
it, you will get a null pointer unless
you've initialized it with something
first. Then we continue on here to the
tacosRecipe on line 38 or 138. We add
the guacRecipe to the recipes list to
return that in. Then we do some other
thing with the taco and we didn't add
categories or tacos. I'm going to do that
real quick.
And we want to get the categories, and
we'll add in American category because
it needs both of these. It will fall under
both categories so we're going to go
ahead and get the right variable
categories and we'll add in the Mexican
category as well. So we're creating that
whole object graph here and it's a
pretty lengthy object graph
there's. So a lot going on here at least as
far as the data goes in there our
recipes. So this mimics pretty well what
we had on the website for those two
recipes and you can see here, I also
included the URL. So that's actually
cut and paste off the website. They had a
little JavaScript to capture their URL
and I left it in there just in case you
needed a direct URL to it. Now we want to
make this a actual class. It's going to
bootstrap for us so what we want to do
is come and make this a Component. And
now we want to tap into application
events. Implements Application
Listener and we want him to take in the
ContextRefreshedEvent. And now I have the
repositories set up here, and what we
want to do is create an implementation
here. So I'm going to come down here
above that private method I added for
getting the recipes and we'll come down
here. I just did a command and we
want to implement methods. So we have the
one onApplicationEvent() and I really
don't need that but with the recipeRepository, you can do a save and it will
take in an iterable and List is an
iterable. So it's go in that.
So that's all we have to do for with
that. That will save everything
coming out of the repositories and see
if everything works on that. I am doing
this live code and next thing we want
to do, so that this will actually run on
startup. Let's see. But before we do that,
let's look at the Ingredient. So we did
that in a no argument constructor and
then a constructor for description,
amount and UnitOfMeasure. That's the only
changes I made to Ingredient. And then on
Recipe, there's actually a couple changes
we need to go over on line 28, I'm
initializing ingredients to a new HashSet. And then also on line 43, I'm doing
the same thing for categories. So that's
all I was talking about that little
trick to avoid having a null pointer
error if you forget to set it. Now on
directions, we just had that as a String
property. We did not use the large object
annotation. So Hibernate would have
created a default field of 255
characters and we definitely need more
than 255 characters for our directions.
So I modified that. I'm going to go in
and run this and see if anything
complaints. See that started up. Okay I'm
going to toggle over to Chrome and see
if we actually have data. So I've got the
database Explorer up. The H2 console,
let's connect to that and let's take a
look at RECIPE, run that and we can see
that we do have a bunch of stuff in
there. I forgot to include a
couple properties there like URL and
source. So we can go back and add that at
a later time. Let's clear that and let's
take a look at NOTES. So we did get notes
in there as well. So it looks like our
data has updated correctly.
Let's check INGREDIENT. So we can see our ingredients as well
have been loaded up and you can see that
we have a null recipe id on the
ingredients. So we're not setting up a
that property going back. So that is one
thing we are going to need to change
because we're not persisting that.
Okay I sped things up a little bit. I didn't want to waste your time on setting some
data property here. So I've
gone in and fixed the recipe and I'll
toggle over to IntelliJ real quick and
show you what I did. I added in recipe
to the constructor of ingredient and fix
the bootstrap to pass in the recipe
object. So that is now getting built
correctly and we can see now that the
recipe id is populated. Double check
NOTES and we did the same thing on
recipe notes. So let's go and fix that
real quick. We only got two to fix. Come
over here.
I'm just going to move that up then we
want to do the same thing for the guac
Recipe.
So now we're going to get that property
set both ways. Yeah, so it had the wrong
method there and we can see that Spring
Boot is restarting. That has started.
Let's come back over here and double
check this. Take a look at the NOTES and
now we can see the NOTES has the proper
recipe id populated. So that's good. Now
we want to set up our service layer.
And we want this to return back a List
and I'm going to stop Spring Boot while
we're doing all this.
Just one method on the interface is on
our RecipeService to get all recipes
and I do want to create a package for
that. Well now refactor that into the
package. Now let's create the
implementation for it.
And do when you're using constructor,
you do want to use a final property and I added
in a constructor for that. It helps if I
give it a name. Now let's do a
constructor. We'll implement
the methods and in this case we want to
return back a Set from the repository. So
what we need to do here is create a new
HashSet and then take the repository.
Get an iterator on it
and then say recipeSet when we're using
a method reference here,
and then return back that Set. Nice
concise Java 8 syntax there and what
we want to do is pass in the recipe service implementation to the controller.
So we'll come over to him and I am going
to get rid of these repositories. We're
just using that four. So we don't need him,
don't need that anymore and we're going
to need to pass in the model.
It'll pass back that set to Thymeleaf
and I am going to fast forward while we
do the HTML. It's getting a little long
and I jumped ahead just a little bit and
I created the HTML. So I'm adding in a
table so we got ID takes the recipe and
we get an iterator over it. So I have
tasty goodness there for my recipe
description for the natural time filling. Let's go ahead and start this and we can
see that RecipeService could not be
found.
Take a look at this and I've missed
adding the Service. Let's see if it works
now and we are up and running on port
8080. Let's come over here to localhost.
So I already have it on my recipes. See
if we get recipes and boom, there's our
recipes. So just a real quick quick recap
here. So we've created the Bootstrap
class, a lot of stuff in there as far as
setting up the object graph. We return
back to the repository, we save a list of
recipes to the recipeRepository, then we
take that same repository and then we
created a RecipeServiceImpl.
That RecipeRepository gets injected
into this guy as well through a
constructor. We convert the
iterable to a Set, a HashSet. We return
that back to the IndexController and
assign it to a property on the view
model of recipes and then finally that
recipes gets displayed via the Thymeleaf
template with this iterator going over
recipes and that's what we saw on the
screen. Now definitely a lot happened in
this little code review here and live
coding exercise. I will have everything
checked into GitHub for you and you'll
find a complete link to everything that
changed and the course resources
attached to this module.